European Environment for Scientific Software Installations (EESSI)

Q&A + comments to talk at Nordic-RSE online event 2020, Dec 2nd
https://nordic-rse.org/events/2020-online-get-together/

Question: Is it possible to test the whole stack, please add links?
Answer:   Yes, see https://eessi.github.io/docs/pilot/
          To get help, join the EESSI Slack, see https://www.eessi-hpc.org/join/

Question: Will you also support AMD Rocm and AMD ecosystem overall?
Answer:   Yes, eventually. Right now there already are optimized installations
          for AMD Zen2 (Rome). OpenMPI is included and is installed on top of
          UCX & libfabric, so should properly support AMD Rocm interconnect,
          but this is currently untested.

Comment: I like this idea as for us it is important people can use it in their
         laptops. Personally I not much loosing time in setting up sw at my
         laptop but I see for the users it is important to have an option to
         install/use it also in their lab. They like it more.
Reply>   Yes, this could allow people to literally write a job script that
         just works on the HPC cluster. Same modules, same software. (and
         no need to build containers, or copy them over, etc.)

Question: This builds on existing projects so it has some content from the
          begining?
Answer:   Thanks to EasyBuild we can easily provide 1000s of installations.
          Right now we limit what we provide, so we can focus on solving the
          problems we're hitting first.

Question: Why European in the name?
Answer:   Because it started with European sites. We're already thinking about
          changing the first E to "Easy" :)
          "EESSI is the Easy Environment..."

Question: What are the possibilities to add "own dirty module", is it like
          same as e.g. with EasyBuild itself?
Answer:   You can easily install additional software on top, for example in
          your home directory on in /tmp, just like you can with any other
          software stack built with EasyBuild).

Question: Sensitivity of central Stratum-0 component, in terms of resilience?
Answer:   The CernVM-FS design is very robust. If the Stratum-0 dies, the
          only impact is that you can't add new software to the repositories.
          As long as one Stratum-1 server is still alive, the software remains
          available (all Stratum-1 servers have a full copy of the provided
          software).
          So it comes down to having enough Stratum-1 servers, spread across
          the world, in different sites and cloud providers.

          W.r.t adding software: we plan to fully automate the workflow of
          adding software to the EESSI repository, such that adding software
          comes down to opening a pull request on GitHub. When the PR is
          approved by a reviewer, the software gets built automatically on
          all supported CPU architectures, and added to Stratum-0, fully
          automatically. Ideally we also have (small) test cases to verify
          that the installations are functional before deploying them.

Question: You mentioned that CernVM-FS only relies on HTTP connections.
          Shouldn't that be HTTPS for security reasons?
Answer:   No, switching to HTTPS has no added value in terms of security,
          we've discussed that with the CernVM-FS developers.
          CernVM-FS has built in security checks between server and clients,
          so HTTPS doesn't provide any additional security (I think, should
          be checked in CernVM-FS documentation).

Question: How would this work for large jobs across multiple nodes, can a
          lot of network traffic to pull in the software be avoided?
Answer:   Yes, you can set up a shared CernVM-FS cache on a shared filesystem.
          If there's no internet access on the cluster workernodes, you can
          use a squid proxy in the cluster network (on a login node for
          example).
          This setup has been tested with the EESSI pilot stack at the
          Jülich Supercomputing Centre, worked really well!

Comment: Detection of CPU architecture is a very nice feature. This is a big
         issue with containers where generic binaries are often, which can
         have a big impact on performance.
Reply:   Yes, indeed! Containers are also very rigid: what if you want to add
         additional software? The EESSI environment is way more dynamic, easy
         to add software on top of it (without paying for it in terms of
         performance), etc.

Comment: This would also work really well in heterogenous environments with
         a mix of old/new CPUs, thanks to the auto-detection mechanism.
Reply:   Yes, very correct, this is an interesting use case!
